[Music]
well hi would you like to have the power
of telepathy or flying I know I would
well maybe not telepathy but flying
would be cool anyway genetic mutations
of that kind are still impossible for
humans maybe just for now who knows but
there are other types that make people's
appearance extraordinary and eye
catching number one multiple colors in
eyes we're so used to the fact that
people usually have one matching eye
color so this type of mutation instantly
draws our attention scientists call it
heterochromia iridium and there are
three types complete when each eye has a
different color
sectoral when an eye has a part of
contrasting color in the iris and
central when a different color radiates
out from the pupil but in reality all
those categories can combine in a
strange and beautiful way a person can
either be born with heterochromia most
often it happens because one of the
parents has it since it's a dominant
trait or can acquire it due to a serious
illness or injury in the first case it
doesn't cause any problems and is just a
cool trait that makes a person stand out
of the crowd number two for Telugu this
is a condition which causes the skin
hair and even nails to lose color since
the body doesn't produce enough melanin
scientists still aren't sure what
triggers this genetic anomaly some think
it has something to do with an immune
system disorder others think heredity is
the main factor which means a person is
likely to get it when someone else and
their family has it usually a person who
has veut telugu starts noticing the
changes in skin coloration between the
ages of ten and thirty but there's been
cases when people get vertigo after a
single event like a sunburn or emotional
distress so far there's no treatment
that can bring the pigmentation back to
the skin however some procedures can
help stop for till ago from spreading
further it's estimated that two percent
of the population have the skin
condition
number three albinism this genetic
disorder results in people having skin
hair or eyes with little or no color
there are different types and I'm going
to tell you about one of them in just a
bit but first the main reason for
albinism lies in a defect in one of the
several genes that produce or distribute
melanin because of this defect there's
either an absence of melanin production
or a reduced amount of melanin
production albino people quite often
suffer from serious health issues like
deafness or vision impairment in most
cases they have to be very cautious
about the time they spend outdoors
because their skin and eyes are super
sensitive to the Sun number four double
eyelashes beautiful thick eyelashes are
something many people dream of and some
get it simply thanks to a genetic
mutation called distich Isis which
causes people to have a second row of
eyelashes it's believed that the
mutation of the foxy two gene is
responsible for it this kind of mutation
seems at first sight like something
harmless that makes a person more
beautiful but in fact having double
eyelashes might be a sign of a serious
heart related disorder what's more those
extra eyelashes can grow in towards the
eye which might be painful and
inconvenient that's why some decide to
get rid of them surgically or with the
help of a laser by the way one of the
most famous actresses in the world
Elizabeth Taylor had this anomaly which
made her glance so captivating and
alluring number five cleft chin I bet a
lot of people remember famous actor John
Travolta because his chin is a classic
representation of this facial
peculiarities many people think that a
cleft chin is a sign of a strong and
independent character but it's really a
gene mutation which results when the
bones or muscles in the lower jaw don't
fuse completely during the baby's
development inside the womb just like
many other anomalies it's hereditary
from the parents to their children
however if a person has a cleft chin it
doesn't necessarily mean that their
offspring will have it too because
environmental factors in the womb or the
presence of modifier genes genes that
influence other genes can prevent it
number six Waardenburg syndrome people
with this syndrome usually have pale
blue eyes which are wide-set and
sometimes white patches on their skin
and hair
however this genetic condition also has
a lot to do with serious health issues
like deafness this happens because the
genetic mutation that results in
Waardenburg syndrome affects a special
type of skin cell called melanocytes
these cells not only influence the color
of your hair skin and eyes but also have
an impact on the function of the inner
ear most of the time parents pass this
syndrome to their children but in some
cases this condition may appear
spontaneously in a newborn number seven
different twins I know it sounds super
weird because the whole point of twins
is to look alike but as you've already
noticed genetics is a real wonder that's
why it's possible for same egg or
identical twins to look completely
different and I mean really different
I'm not talking only about the color of
the eyes or hair but even skin colour
such kids are often born to mixed-race
couples that's how for example one kid
inherits a gene for white skin and the
other for dark skin number eight pi bald
ism for almost 90 percent of people who
have it a forelock of white hair along
with a white patch of skin on their
forehead might be the only present
symptom usually people have this patch
of white hair from birth and its
location most of the time is at the
hairline near the forehead however other
body parts like eyebrows the middle of
the arms and legs and eyelashes might
also be affected by piebald ism just
like many other skin related mutations
this one is caused by the fact that a
person is missing Milano site cells I
don't know about you but to me these
people look as if they've just arrived
from a fantasy world
number nine red hair in people of
African descent as I've mentioned before
there are many different types of
albinism so a special type of albinism
together with a mutation of the mc1r
gene results in people of African and
Asian origin having red hair freckles or
blue eyes this mutation looks stunning
breaking the stereotype that redheads
can only have pale white skin
number 10 ocular albinism and there's
another type of albinism I promise to
tell you about it affects only the eyes
causing pigment to disappear from the
iris and sometimes the retina to this
rare eye condition more often affects
males than females having ocular
albinism usually means that a person
needs to take great care of their eyes
this includes wearing special glasses or
contact lenses and avoid being in places
that are too brightly lit because their
eyes are really sensitive during
childhood someone with ocular albinism
might have uncontrollable eye movement
like rapid movements from side to side
or up and down
usually this symptom fades away as they
grow up
number 11 blue eyes I can already hear
you saying wait a minute
blue eyes aren't something rare and
they're actually not you're right but
having them is still the result of a
genetic mutation which happened about
10,000 years ago back then all people
had brown eyes in other words their eyes
contained a lot of melanin the gene that
controls melanin is called oca2 so many
many ages ago a nearby gene mutated out
of the blue of course the pun was
intended and ended up limiting the
ability of oca2 to produce melanin in
the iris this prevented melanin from
coloring the eyes brown data the human
population got blue eyes
they're blue because it's the color that
appears if the eyes have no pigmentation
number 12 freckles and again the mc1r
gene comes into play here since it's
responsible for producing melanin but
freckles can appear without the Sun
that's why you don't find newborns who
have freckles since they haven't been
exposed to the Sun yet so when you're
bathing in the sunlight it triggers your
body to produce more melanin to protect
your skin if your melanocytes skin cells
involved in producing pigmentation are
evenly spread you're likely to get a
nice tan but some people have those
special skin cells clustered together
and they end up having a buildup of
pigment in one area resulting in
freckles so yeah every one of us were
all genetically modified organisms GMOs
not just corn and stuff and it helps
make each of us that much more special
vive la diffrence how about you do you
have any of those beautiful genetic
alterations or maybe you know someone
who does let me know in the comments if
you learn something new today then give
this video a like and share it with a
friend but hey don't go out sunbathing
just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out just click on this left or
right video and enjoy stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]